Restructure Reverse Path Refreshment (#18)
scionassociation/scion-research_I-D: draft-meynell-panrg-scion-research-questions.md

## Reverse Path Refreshment

When a client contacts a server, it is usually understood that it wants the server to use the reverse path to answer back.
If the server uses that path for a long period of time, the path will eventually expire.
How to standardize the process of refreshment?

There are some relevant points we have identified for the discussion:

> * Usually the server's transport layer or application layer API will store

Reviewer: Nitpick, this is not a bullet point, or is it? :)

Author: The intention is for it to be one point. What I want to convey here is that the path has to be stored somewhere, analogously to storing the sender's address with IP.
Maybe I convoluted the explanation too much.
Should I just simplify it?

Reviewer: Yes, maybe remove some parts? I am not sure how relevant the question is where the path is stored on the server? Maybe something like: 

```
In order to send data to the client the server needs to store the path locally (analogous to storing the clients IP/port in a non-SCION scenario).
```
?

Author: Done. PTAL also at the new point I've added.

the initial address of the client to be used through all the session.
Bridging the semantics of the address being needed for the server to answer back,
into a path being needed for the server to answer back,

> we can only assume that the server transport or application layer will store

Reviewer: In the case of JPAN, the path storage transparent to any API users.

Author: Correct. Depending at what layer it stores it (QUIC, UDP transport), it would apply to only that layer and above. E.g. if storing it at the QUIC library level, users of raw UDP packets (maybe videoconferencing tools) would have to use a different technique, as this would not be provided to them; additionally, the QUIC specification for SCION would have to include this step.

## Reverse Path Refreshment

When a client contacts a server, it is usually understood that it wants the server to use the reverse path to answer back.
If the server uses that path for a long period of time, the path will eventually expire.
How to standardize the process of refreshment?

There are some relevant points we have identified for the discussion:

* In order to send data back to the client the server needs to store the path locally
  (analogous to storing the client's IP/TCP-port in an TCP/IP scenario).

* More generally, if multiple paths are used to contact the server,

>   which one of those would be used to reply? Leave it to transport  like in the case

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  which one of those would be used to reply? Leave it to transport as in the case
```

Reviewer 2: Should this be 'leave it to the transport layer'?

  of QUIC-MP {{I-D.ietf-quic-multipath}}?

> * How long before expiration should the client and server still use a path?

Reviewer 2: Can this be explained a bit more, as what is the expiration for if it's not used at some undefined time before expiry?

Author: I've added some text, PTAL.

  How do we handle that?

* Is it actually necessary to solve the reverse path refresh problem at all?
  Listing some pros and cons of solving it at the network layer.
  * Pros:
    * The client may happen to have an about-to-expire path.
    If the server can't refresh, the client always needs to consider whether
    a path is valid "long enough", which might only be possible to guess.
  * Cons:
    * It is probably rare that a server needs to send data for a long time without the application layer protocol requiring the client to ever answer back.
    * Sending keep-alives sounds like a connection based protocol.
    It also means we need to figure out when to stop sending keep-alives.
    * It may be better to solve this in the transport or application layers,
    where we know more about potential length of the session,
    or whether this is a singular request/answer type of exchange,

>     or whether more frequent keep-alives are anyway required.

Reviewer 2: The text from 'How do we handle that?' onwards will need re-phrasing at some point, and perhaps integrated with the 'Proposed Solutions' (i.e. pros/cons of each approach).

### Proposed Solutions (not comprehensive)

> * The server MUST ask the CS for a path, regardless of the client's policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The server MUST ask the Control Services for a path, regardless of the client's policy.
```

Reviewer 2: Should expand SCION-specific acronyms.
